Wrangler2 release (#3909)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/wrangler/commands.md

- [`logout`](#logout) - remove Wrangler’s authorization for accessing your account

{{<Aside type="note">}}

The following global flags work on every single command.

Flags:

{{<definitions>}}

- `--config` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}}
  - Path to `.toml` configuration file
- `--help` {{<type>}}boolean{{</type>}}
  - Show help
- `--version` {{<type>}}boolean{{</type>}}
  - Show version number

{{</definitions>}}

{{</Aside>}}

---

## init

Create a skeleton Wrangler project, including the `wrangler.toml` file.

```sh
$ wrangler init [NAME] [-y / --yes]
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `NAME` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}} {{<prop-meta>}}(default: name of working directory){{</prop-meta>}}
  - The name of the Workers project. This is both the directory name and `name` property in the generated `wrangler.toml` [configuration](/workers/wrangler/configuration/) file.
- `--yes` {{<type>}}boolean{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - Answer yes to any prompts for new projects.

{{</definitions>}}

---

## dev

Start a local server for developing your Worker.

```sh
$ wrangler dev [SCRIPT] [OPTIONS]
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> None of the options for this command are required. Also, many can be set in your `wrangler.toml` file.

Author: The options are the --name, --env, etc starting on line 81

---
pcx-content-type: how-to
title: Commands
weight: 2
---

> 

Reviewer: This needs a "WORK IN PROGRESS" banner.

## Wrangler commands

These are the global flags that work on every single command.

```sh
Flags:
  `-c`, `--config`      Path to `.toml` configuration file  [string]
  `-h`, `--help`        Show help  [boolean]
  `-v`, `--version`     Show version number  [boolean]

>       `--legacy-env`  Use legacy environments  [boolean] (defaults to true)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Let's not have this here

```

---

> ## init

Reviewer: Let's do this order of commands: 

init 
dev 
publish 
kv 
secret 
tail 
login 
logout

Create a skeleton Wrangler project, including the `wrangler.toml` file, into a specified directory.

```sh

> $ wrangler init [$NAME] [--yes]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ wrangler init [$NAME] [-y / --yes]
```

  - Allows to choose your set of OAuth scopes. The set of scopes must be entered in a whitespace-separated list,
    for example, `$ wrangler login --scopes account:read user:read`.

{{</definitions>}}

`wrangler login` uses all the available scopes by default if no flags are provided.

---

## logout

Remove Wrangler's authorization for accessing your account. This command will invalidate your current OAuth token.

```sh
$ wrangler logout
```

If you are using `CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN` instead of OAuth, and wish to delete your API token, log into the Cloudflare dashboard and go to **Overview** > **Get your API token** in the right side menu > select the three-dot menu on your Wrangler token and select **Delete** if you wish to delete your API token.

---

## publish

Publish your Worker to Cloudflare. Several keys in your `wrangler.toml` file determine whether you are publishing to a `*.workers.dev` subdomain or a custom domain. However, custom domains must be proxied (orange-clouded) through Cloudflare. Refer to the [Get started guide](/workers/get-started/guide/#optional-configure-for-deploying-to-a-registered-domain) for more information.

```sh

> $ wrangler publish [--env $ENVIRONMENT_NAME]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ wrangler publish 
```

```

> {{<definitions>}}
> 
> - `--env` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
>   - If defined, Wrangler will load the matching environment's configuration before building and deploying. Refer to [Environments](/workers/platform/environments/) for more information.
> 
> {{</definitions>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{<Aside>}}

mention compat date being required

{{</Aside>}}

```sh
Options:

>   -e, --env                                        Perform on a specific environment  [string]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      --env                                        Perform on a specific environment  [string]
```

```

This command only invalidates OAuth tokens acquired through the `wrangler login` command. However, it will try to delete the configuration file regardless of your authorization method.

If you wish to delete your API token, log into the Cloudflare dashboard and go to **Overview** > **Get your API token** in the right side menu > select the three-dot menu on your Wrangler token and select **Delete** if you wish to delete your API token.

---

## publish

Publish your Worker to Cloudflare. Several keys in your `wrangler.toml` file determine whether you are publishing to a `*.workers.dev` subdomain or a custom domain. However, custom domains must be proxied (orange-clouded) through Cloudflare. Refer to the [Get started guide](/workers/get-started/guide/#optional-configure-for-deploying-to-a-registered-domain) for more information.

```sh
$ wrangler publish [--env $ENVIRONMENT_NAME]
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `--env` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - If defined, Wrangler will load the matching environment's configuration before building and deploying. Refer to [Environments](/workers/platform/environments/) for more information.

{{</definitions>}}

{{<Aside>}}

> mention compat date being required

Reviewer: just delete it, not necessary here

- `--ip` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The IP to listen on, defaults to `127.0.0.1`.

- `--port` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The port to listen on, defaults to `8787`.

- `--host` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The host to forward requests to, defaults to the zone of the project or to `tutorial.cloudflareworkers.com` if unauthenticated.

- `--local-protocol` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The protocol to listen to requests on, defaults to `http`.

- `--upstream-protocol` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - The protocol to forward requests to host on, defaults to `https`.

{{</definitions>}}

These arguments can also be set in your `wrangler.toml` file. Refer to the [`wrangler dev` configuration](/workers/wrangler/cli-wrangler/configuration/#dev) documentation for more information.

### Usage

You should run `wrangler dev` from your Worker directory. Wrangler will run a local server accepting requests, executing your Worker, and forwarding them to a host. If you want to use another host other than your zone or `tutorials.cloudflare.com`, you can specify with `--host example.com`.

```sh
$ wrangler dev

> 💁  JavaScript project found. Skipping unnecessary build!

Reviewer 2: I think this line is out of date, right?

Reviewer 2: Let's update this whole output to show the new UI for `wrangler dev`.

💁  watching "./"
👂  Listening on http://127.0.0.1:8787
```

> With `wrangler dev` running, you can send HTTP requests to `localhost:8787` and your Worker should execute as expected. You will also see `console.log` messages and exceptions appearing in your terminal. If either of these things do not happen, or you think the output is incorrect, [file an issue](https://github.com/cloudflare/wrangler).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With `wrangler dev` running, you can send HTTP requests to `localhost:8787` and your Worker should execute as expected. You will also see `console.log` messages and exceptions appearing in your terminal.
```

It seems lacking in confidence in the tool to put a sentence about reporting bugs if stuff isn't working here.

---

## tail

Start a session to livestream logs from a deployed Worker.

```sh

> $ wrangler tail [--format $FORMAT] [--status $STATUS] [OPTIONS]

Reviewer 2: `tail` can now also take a Worker `name`, so you can run it from anywhere.

```

{{<definitions>}}

- `--format $FORMAT` {{<type>}}json|pretty{{</type>}}
  - The format of the log entries.
- `--status $STATUS`
  - Filter by invocation status \[possible values: `ok`, `error`, `canceled`].
- `--header $HEADER`
  - Filter by HTTP header.
- `--method $METHOD`
  - Filter by HTTP method.
- `--sampling-rate $RATE`
  - Add a percentage of requests to log sampling rate.
- `--search $SEARCH`
  - Filter by a text match in `console.log` messages.

{{</definitions>}}

After starting `wrangler tail` in a directory with a project, you will receive a live feed of console and exception logs for each request your Worker receives.

> Like all Wrangler commands, run `wrangler tail` from your Worker’s root directory (the directory with your `wrangler.toml` file).

Reviewer 2: You can now start `tail` in any directory as long as you specify the name of the Worker.

{{<Aside type="warning" header="Legacy issues with existing cloudflared configuration">}}

`wrangler tail` versions older than version 1.19.0 use `cloudflared` to run. Cloudflare recommends [updating to the latest wrangler version](/workers/wrangler/getting-started/#update) to avoid any issues.

> {{</Aside>}}

Reviewer 2: Perhaps time to move on from this warning. Delete it?

{{</definitions>}}

### `delete`

Delete a secret from a specific script.

```sh
$ wrangler secret delete <name> --env ENVIRONMENT_NAME
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `name`

  - The variable name to be accessible in the script.

- `--env $ENVIRONMENT_NAME` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - If defined, the changes will only apply to the specified environment. Refer to [Environments](/workers/platform/environments/) for more information.

{{</definitions>}}

### `list`

List all the secret names bound to a specific script.

```sh
$ wrangler secret list --env ENVIRONMENT_NAME
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `--env $ENVIRONMENT_NAME` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - If defined, only the specified environment's secrets will be listed. Refer to [Environments](/workers/platform/environments/) for more information.

{{</definitions>}}

---

## kv

The `kv` subcommand allows you to store application data in the Cloudflare network to be accessed from Workers using [Workers KV](https://www.cloudflare.com/products/workers-kv/). KV operations are scoped to your account, so in order to use any of these commands, you:

> - must configure and `account_id` in your project's `wrangler.toml` file.

Reviewer 2: Or via `CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID` environment variable.

2.  With a `--namespace-id`:

    ```sh
    $ wrangler kv:key get --namespace-id=06779da6940b431db6e566b4846d64db "my key"
    ```

Most `kv` subcommands also allow you to specify an environment with the optional `--env` flag. This allows you to publish Workers running the same code but with different namespaces. For example, you could use separate staging and production namespaces for KV data in your `wrangler.toml` file:

```toml
type = "webpack"
name = "my-worker"
account_id = "<account id here>"
route = "staging.example.com/*"
workers_dev = false

kv_namespaces = [
  { binding = "MY_KV", id = "06779da6940b431db6e566b4846d64db" }
]

[env.production]
route = "example.com/*"
kv_namespaces = [
  { binding = "MY_KV", id = "07bc1f3d1f2a4fd8a45a7e026e2681c6" }
]
```

With the `wrangler.toml` file above, you can specify `--env production` when you want to perform a KV action on the namespace `MY_KV` under `env.production`. For example, with the `wrangler.toml` file above, you can get a value out of a production KV instance with:

```sh
$ wrangler kv:key get --binding "MY_KV" --env=production "my key"
```

> To learn more about environments, refer to [Environments](/workers/platform/environments/).

Reviewer 2: The whole block of `kv` related narrative above this should probably be removed from this reference doc. Instead we could have a link to a learning or tutorial page.

yes
🌀  Deleting namespace 15137f8edf6c09742227e99b08aaf273
✨  Success
```

### `kv:key`

#### `put`

Write a single key-value pair to a particular namespace.

```sh
$ wrangler kv:key put --binding= [--namespace-id=] $KEY $VALUE
✨  Success
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `$KEY` {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The key to write to.

- `$VALUE` {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The value to write.

- `--binding` {{<prop-meta>}}required (if no {{<code>}}--namespace-id{{</code>}}){{</prop-meta>}}

  - The name of the namespace to write to.

- `--namespace-id` {{<prop-meta>}}required (if no {{<code>}}--binding{{</code>}}){{</prop-meta>}}

  - The ID of the namespace to write to.

- `--env $ENVIRONMENT_NAME` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - If defined, the changes will only apply to the specified environment. Refer to [Environments](/workers/platform/environments/) for more information.

- `--preview` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - Interact with a preview namespace instead of production. Pass this to the `wrangler.toml` file’s `kv_namespaces.preview_id` instead of `kv_namespaces.id`.

- `--ttl` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The lifetime (in number of seconds) the document should exist before expiring. Must be at least `60` seconds. This option takes precedence over the `expiration` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The lifetime (in number of seconds) the key-value pair should exist before expiring. Must be at least `60` seconds. This option takes precedence over the `expiration` option.
```

- `--expiration` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The timestamp, in UNIX seconds, indicating when the key-value pair should expire.

- `--path` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - When defined, Wrangler reads the `--path` file location to upload its contents as KV documents. This is ideal for security-sensitive operations because it avoids saving keys and values into your terminal history.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - When defined, Wrangler the value is loaded from the file at `--path`. This is ideal for security-sensitive operations because it avoids saving keys and values into your terminal history.
```

{{</definitions>}}

##### Usage

```sh
$ wrangler kv:key put --binding=MY_KV "key" "value"
✨  Success
```

```sh
$ wrangler kv:key put --binding=MY_KV --preview "key" "value"
✨  Success
```

```sh
$ wrangler kv:key put --binding=MY_KV "key" "value" --ttl=10000
✨  Success
```

```sh

> $ wrangler kv:key put --binding=MY_KV "key" value.txt --path

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ wrangler kv:key put --binding=MY_KV "key" --path=value.txt 
```

✨  Success
```

#### `list`

Output a list of all keys in a given namespace.

```sh
$ wrangler kv:key list --binding= [--namespace-id=] [--prefix] [--env]
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `--binding` {{<prop-meta>}}required (if no {{<code>}}--namespace-id{{</code>}}){{</prop-meta>}}

  - The name of the namespace to list.

- `--namespace-id` {{<prop-meta>}}required (if no {{<code>}}--binding{{</code>}}){{</prop-meta>}}

  - The ID of the namespace to list.

- `--env $ENVIRONMENT_NAME` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - If defined, the changes will only apply to the specified environment. Refer to [Environments](/workers/platform/environments/) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - If defined, the operation will only apply to the specified environment. Refer to [Environments](/workers/platform/environments/) for more information.
```

- `expiration` {{<type>}}int{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The time, measured in number of seconds since the UNIX epoch, at which the key should expire.

- `expiration_ttl` {{<type>}}int{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The number of seconds the document should exist before expiring. Must be at least `60` seconds.

- `base64` {{<type>}}bool{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - When true, the server will decode the value as base64 before storing it. This is useful for writing values that would otherwise be invalid JSON strings, such as images. Defaults to `false`.

{{</definitions>}}

If both `expiration` and `expiration_ttl` are specified for a given key, the API will prefer `expiration_ttl`.

##### Usage

```sh
$ wrangler kv:bulk put --binding=MY_KV allthethingsupload.json
🌀  uploading 1 key value pairs
✨  Success
```

#### `delete`

Delete all specified keys within a given namespace.

```sh
$ wrangler kv:bulk delete --binding= [--env=] [--preview] [--namespace-id=] $FILENAME
```

{{<definitions>}}

- `$FILENAME` {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

>   - The file with key-value pairs to delete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The file with keys to delete.
```

- `--binding` {{<prop-meta>}}required (if no {{<code>}}--namespace-id{{</code>}}){{</prop-meta>}}

  - The name of the namespace to delete from.

- `--namespace-id` {{<prop-meta>}}required (if no {{<code>}}--binding{{</code>}}){{</prop-meta>}}

  - The ID of the namespace to delete from.

- `--env $ENVIRONMENT_NAME` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}

  - If defined, the changes will only apply to the specified environment. Refer to [Environments](/workers/platform/environments/) for more information.

- `--preview` {{<prop-meta>}}optional{{</prop-meta>}}
  - Interact with a preview namespace instead of production. Pass this to use your `wrangler.toml` file’s `kv_namespaces.preview_id` instead of `kv_namespaces.id`

{{</definitions>}}

> This command takes a JSON file as an argument with a list of key-value pairs to delete. An example of JSON input:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command takes a JSON file as an argument with a list of keys to delete. An example of JSON input:
```

```json

> [
>   {
>     "key": "test_key",
>     "value": ""
>   }
> ]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[
  "test_key_1",
  "test_key_2"
]
```

```

{{<definitions>}}

- `key` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}

  - The key’s name. The name may be at most 512 bytes. All printable, non-whitespace characters are valid.

- `value` {{<type>}}string{{</type>}} {{<prop-meta>}}required{{</prop-meta>}}
  - The UTF-8 encoded string to be stored, up to 10 MB in length.

> {{</definitions>}}

Reviewer 2: Delete this block.

##### Usage

```sh
$ wrangler kv:bulk delete --binding=MY_KV allthethingsdelete.json
Are you sure you want to delete all keys in allthethingsdelete.json? [y/n]
y
🌀  deleting 1 key value pairs
✨  Success

> ```

Reviewer 2: The only other non-beta command that is missing here is `whoami`.
